apt 2.8.3 commandline package manager
 This package provides commandline tools for searching and
 managing as well as querying information about packages
 as a low-level access to all features of the libapt-pkg library.
 .
 These include:
  * apt-get for retrieval of packages and information about them
    from authenticated sources and for installation, upgrade and
    removal of packages together with their dependencies
  * apt-cache for querying available information about installed
    as well as installable packages
  * apt-cdrom to use removable media as a source for packages
  * apt-config as an interface to the configuration settings
  * apt-key as an interface to manage authentication keys
base-files 13ubuntu10.3 Debian base system miscellaneous files
 This package contains the basic filesystem hierarchy of a Debian system, and
 several important miscellaneous files, such as /etc/debian_version,
 /etc/host.conf, /etc/issue, /etc/motd, /etc/profile, and others,
 and the text of several common licenses in use on Debian systems.
base-passwd 3.6.3build1 Debian base system master password and group files
 These are the canonical master copies of the user database files
 (/etc/passwd and /etc/group), containing the Debian-allocated user and
 group IDs. The update-passwd tool is provided to keep the system databases
 synchronized with these master files.
bash 5.2.21-2ubuntu4 GNU Bourne Again SHell
 Bash is an sh-compatible command language interpreter that executes
 commands read from the standard input or from a file.  Bash also
 incorporates useful features from the Korn and C shells (ksh and csh).
 .
 Bash is ultimately intended to be a conformant implementation of the
 IEEE POSIX Shell and Tools specification (IEEE Working Group 1003.2).
 .
 The Programmable Completion Code, by Ian Macdonald, is now found in
 the bash-completion package.
bsdutils 1:2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 basic utilities from 4.4BSD-Lite
 This package contains the bare minimum of BSD utilities needed for a Debian
 system: logger, renice, script, scriptlive, scriptreplay and wall. The
 remaining standard BSD utilities are provided by bsdextrautils.
coreutils 9.4-3ubuntu6.1 GNU core utilities
 This package contains the basic file, shell and text manipulation
 utilities which are expected to exist on every operating system.
 .
 Specifically, this package includes:
 arch base64 basename cat chcon chgrp chmod chown chroot cksum comm cp
 csplit cut date dd df dir dircolors dirname du echo env expand expr
 factor false flock fmt fold groups head hostid id install join link ln
 logname ls md5sum mkdir mkfifo mknod mktemp mv nice nl nohup nproc numfmt
 od paste pathchk pinky pr printenv printf ptx pwd readlink realpath rm
 rmdir runcon sha*sum seq shred sleep sort split stat stty sum sync tac
 tail tee test timeout touch tr true truncate tsort tty uname unexpand
 uniq unlink users vdir wc who whoami yes
dash 0.5.12-6ubuntu5 POSIX-compliant shell
 The Debian Almquist Shell (dash) is a POSIX-compliant shell derived
 from ash.
 .
 Since it executes scripts faster than bash, and has fewer library
 dependencies (making it more robust against software or hardware
 failures), it is used as the default system shell on Debian systems.
debconf 1.5.86ubuntu1 Debian configuration management system
 Debconf is a configuration management system for debian packages. Packages
 use Debconf to ask questions when they are installed.
debianutils 5.17build1 Miscellaneous utilities specific to Debian
 This package provides a number of small utilities which are used
 primarily by the installation scripts of Debian packages, although
 you may use them directly.
 .
 The specific utilities included are:
 add-shell installkernel ischroot remove-shell run-parts savelog
 update-shells which
diffutils 1:3.10-1build1 File comparison utilities
 The diffutils package provides the diff, diff3, sdiff, and cmp programs.
 .
 `diff' shows differences between two files, or each corresponding file
 in two directories.  `cmp' shows the offsets and line numbers where
 two files differ.  `cmp' can also show all the characters that
 differ between the two files, side by side.  `diff3' shows differences
 among three files.  `sdiff' merges two files interactively.
 .
 The set of differences produced by `diff' can be used to distribute
 updates to text files (such as program source code) to other people.
 This method is especially useful when the differences are small compared
 to the complete files.  Given `diff' output, the `patch' program can
 update, or "patch", a copy of the file.
dpkg 1.22.6ubuntu6.5 Debian package management system
 This package provides the low-level infrastructure for handling the
 installation and removal of Debian software packages.
 .
 For Debian package development tools, install dpkg-dev.
e2fsprogs 1.47.0-2.4~exp1ubuntu4.1 ext2/ext3/ext4 file system utilities
 The ext2, ext3 and ext4 file systems are successors of the original ext
 ("extended") file system. They are the main file system types used for
 hard disks on Debian and other Linux systems.
 .
 This package contains programs for creating, checking, and maintaining
 ext2/3/4-based file systems.  It also includes the "badblocks" program,
 which can be used to scan for bad blocks on a disk or other storage device.
findutils 4.9.0-5build1 utilities for finding files--find, xargs
 GNU findutils provides utilities to find files meeting specified
 criteria and perform various actions on the files which are found.
 This package contains 'find' and 'xargs'; however, 'locate' has
 been split off into a separate package.
gcc-14-base 14.2.0-4ubuntu2~24.04 GCC, the GNU Compiler Collection (base package)
 This package contains files common to all languages and libraries
 contained in the GNU Compiler Collection (GCC).
gpgv 2.4.4-2ubuntu17.3 GNU privacy guard - signature verification tool
 GnuPG is GNU's tool for secure communication and data storage.
 .
 gpgv is actually a stripped-down version of gpg which is only able
 to check signatures. It is somewhat smaller than the fully-blown gpg
 and uses a different (and simpler) way to check that the public keys
 used to make the signature are valid. There are no configuration
 files and only a few options are implemented.
grep 3.11-4build1 GNU grep, egrep and fgrep
 'grep' is a utility to search for text in files; it can be used from the
 command line or in scripts.  Even if you don't want to use it, other packages
 on your system probably will.
 .
 The GNU family of grep utilities may be the "fastest grep in the west".
 GNU grep is based on a fast lazy-state deterministic matcher (about
 twice as fast as stock Unix egrep) hybridized with a Boyer-Moore-Gosper
 search for a fixed string that eliminates impossible text from being
 considered by the full regexp matcher without necessarily having to
 look at every character. The result is typically many times faster
 than Unix grep or egrep. (Regular expressions containing backreferencing
 will run more slowly, however.)
gzip 1.12-1ubuntu3.1 GNU compression utilities
 This package provides the standard GNU file compression utilities, which
 are also the default compression tools for Debian.  They typically operate
 on files with names ending in '.gz', but can also decompress files ending
 in '.Z' created with 'compress'.
hostname 3.23+nmu2ubuntu2 utility to set/show the host name or domain name
 This package provides commands which can be used to display the system's
 DNS name, and to display or set its hostname or NIS domain name.
htop 3.3.0-4build1 interactive processes viewer
 Htop is an ncursed-based process viewer similar to top, but it
 allows one to scroll the list vertically and horizontally to see
 all processes and their full command lines.
 .
 Tasks related to processes (killing, renicing) can be done without
 entering their PIDs.
init-system-helpers 1.66ubuntu1 helper tools for all init systems
 This package contains helper tools that are necessary for switching between
 the various init systems that Debian contains (e. g. sysvinit or
 systemd). An example is deb-systemd-helper, a script that enables systemd unit
 files without depending on a running systemd.
 .
 It also includes the "service", "invoke-rc.d", and "update-rc.d" scripts which
 provide an abstraction for enabling, disabling, starting, and stopping
 services for all supported Debian init systems as specified by the policy.
 .
 While this package is maintained by pkg-systemd-maintainers, it is NOT
 specific to systemd at all. Maintainers of other init systems are welcome to
 include their helpers in this package.
libacl1 2.3.2-1build1.1 access control list - shared library
 This package contains the shared library containing the POSIX 1003.1e
 draft standard 17 functions for manipulating access control lists.
libapt-pkg6.0t64 2.8.3 package management runtime library
 This library provides the common functionality for searching and
 managing packages as well as information about packages.
 Higher-level package managers can depend upon this library.
 .
 This includes:
  * retrieval of information about packages from multiple sources
  * retrieval of packages and all dependent packages
    needed to satisfy a request either through an internal
    solver or by interfacing with an external one
  * authenticating the sources and validating the retrieved data
  * installation and removal of packages in the system
  * providing different transports to retrieve data over cdrom, ftp,
    http(s), rsh as well as an interface to add more transports like
    tor+http(s) (apt-transport-tor).
libassuan0 2.5.6-1build1 IPC library for the GnuPG components
 Libassuan is a small library implementing the so-called "Assuan
 protocol". This protocol is used for IPC between most newer GnuPG
 components. Both server and client side functions are provided.
libattr1 1:2.5.2-1build1.1 extended attribute handling - shared library
 Contains the runtime environment required by programs that make use
 of extended attributes.
libaudit-common 1:3.1.2-2.1build1.1 Dynamic library for security auditing - common files
 The audit-libs package contains the dynamic libraries needed for
 applications to use the audit framework. It is used to monitor systems for
 security related events.
 .
 This package contains the libaudit.conf configuration file and the associated
 manpage.
libaudit1 1:3.1.2-2.1build1.1 Dynamic library for security auditing
 The audit-libs package contains the dynamic libraries needed for
 applications to use the audit framework. It is used to monitor systems for
 security related events.
libblkid1 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 block device ID library
 The blkid library allows system programs such as fsck and mount to
 quickly and easily find block devices by filesystem UUID or label.
 This allows system administrators to avoid specifying filesystems by
 hard-coded device names and use a logical naming system instead.
libbz2-1.0 1.0.8-5.1build0.1 high-quality block-sorting file compressor library - runtime
 This package contains libbzip2 which is used by the bzip2 compressor.
 .
 bzip2 is a freely available, patent free, data compressor.
 .
 bzip2 compresses files using the Burrows-Wheeler block-sorting text
 compression algorithm, and Huffman coding.  Compression is generally
 considerably better than that achieved by more conventional
 LZ77/LZ78-based compressors, and approaches the performance of the PPM
 family of statistical compressors.
 .
 The archive file format of bzip2 (.bz2) is incompatible with that of its
 predecessor, bzip (.bz).
libc-bin 2.39-0ubuntu8.6 GNU C Library: Binaries
 This package contains utility programs related to the GNU C Library.
 .
  * getconf: query system configuration variables
  * getent: get entries from administrative databases
  * iconv, iconvconfig: convert between character encodings
  * ldd, ldconfig: print/configure shared library dependencies
  * locale, localedef: show/generate locale definitions
  * tzselect, zdump, zic: select/dump/compile time zones
libc6 2.39-0ubuntu8.6 GNU C Library: Shared libraries
 Contains the standard libraries that are used by nearly all programs on
 the system. This package includes shared versions of the standard C library
 and the standard math library, as well as many others.
libcap-ng0 0.8.4-2build2 alternate POSIX capabilities library
 This library implements the user-space interfaces to the POSIX
 1003.1e capabilities available in Linux kernels.  These capabilities are
 a partitioning of the all powerful root privilege into a set of distinct
 privileges.
 .
 The libcap-ng library is intended to make programming with POSIX
 capabilities much easier than the traditional libcap library.
 .
 This package contains dynamic libraries for libcap-ng.
libcap2 1:2.66-5ubuntu2.2 POSIX 1003.1e capabilities (library)
 Libcap implements the user-space interfaces to the POSIX 1003.1e capabilities
 available in Linux kernels. These capabilities are a partitioning of the all
 powerful root privilege into a set of distinct privileges.
 .
 This package contains the shared library.
libcom-err2 1.47.0-2.4~exp1ubuntu4.1 common error description library
 libcomerr is an attempt to present a common error-handling mechanism to
 manipulate the most common form of error code in a fashion that does not
 have the problems identified with mechanisms commonly in use.
libcrypt1 1:4.4.36-4build1 libcrypt shared library
 libxcrypt is a modern library for one-way hashing of passwords.
 It supports DES, MD5, NTHASH, SUNMD5, SHA-2-256, SHA-2-512, and
 bcrypt-based password hashes
 It provides the traditional Unix 'crypt' and 'crypt_r' interfaces,
 as well as a set of extended interfaces like 'crypt_gensalt'.
libdb5.3t64 5.3.28+dfsg2-7 Berkeley v5.3 Database Libraries [runtime]
 This is the runtime package for programs that use the v5.3 Berkeley
 database library.
libdebconfclient0 0.271ubuntu3 Debian Configuration Management System (C-implementation library)
 Debconf is a configuration management system for Debian packages. It is
 used by some packages to prompt you for information before they are
 installed. cdebconf is a reimplementation of the original debconf in C.
 .
 This library allows C programs to interface with cdebconf.
libext2fs2t64 1.47.0-2.4~exp1ubuntu4.1 ext2/ext3/ext4 file system libraries
 The ext2, ext3 and ext4 file systems are successors of the original ext
 ("extended") file system. They are the main file system types used for
 hard disks on Debian and other Linux systems.
 .
 This package provides the ext2fs and e2p libraries, for userspace software
 that directly accesses extended file systems. Programs that use libext2fs
 include e2fsck, mke2fs, and tune2fs. Programs that use libe2p include
 dumpe2fs, chattr, and lsattr.
libffi8 3.4.6-1build1 Foreign Function Interface library runtime
 A foreign function interface is the popular name for the interface that
 allows code written in one language to call code written in another
 language.
libgcc-s1 14.2.0-4ubuntu2~24.04 GCC support library
 Shared version of the support library, a library of internal subroutines
 that GCC uses to overcome shortcomings of particular machines, or
 special needs for some languages.
libgcrypt20 1.10.3-2build1 LGPL Crypto library - runtime library
 libgcrypt contains cryptographic functions.  Many important free
 ciphers, hash algorithms and public key signing algorithms have been
 implemented:
 .
 Arcfour, Blowfish, CAST5, DES, AES, Twofish, Serpent, rfc2268 (rc2), SEED,
 Poly1305, Camellia, ChaCha20, IDEA, Salsa, SM4, Blake-2, CRC, MD2, MD4, MD5,
 RIPE-MD160, SM3, SHA-1, SHA-256, SHA-512, SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384,
 SHA3-512, SHAKE128, SHAKE256, Tiger, Whirlpool, DSA, DSA2, ElGamal, RSA, ECC
 (Curve25519, sec256k1, GOST R 34.10-2001 and GOST R 34.10-2012, etc.)
libgmp10 2:6.3.0+dfsg-2ubuntu6.1 Multiprecision arithmetic library
 GNU MP is a programmer's library for arbitrary precision
 arithmetic (ie, a bignum package).  It can operate on signed
 integer, rational, and floating point numeric types.
 .
 It has a rich set of functions, and the functions have a regular
 interface.
libgnutls30t64 3.8.3-1.1ubuntu3.4 GNU TLS library - main runtime library
 GnuTLS is a portable library which implements the Transport Layer
 Security (TLS 1.0, 1.1, 1.2, 1.3) and Datagram
 Transport Layer Security (DTLS 1.0, 1.2) protocols.
 .
 GnuTLS features support for:
  - certificate path validation, as well as DANE and trust on first use.
  - the Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP).
  - public key methods, including RSA and Elliptic curves, as well as password
    and key authentication methods such as SRP and PSK protocols.
  - all the strong encryption algorithms, including AES and Camellia.
  - CPU-assisted cryptography with VIA padlock and AES-NI instruction sets.
  - HSMs and cryptographic tokens, via PKCS #11.
 .
 This package contains the main runtime library.
libgpg-error0 1.47-3build2.1 GnuPG development runtime library
 Library that defines common error values, messages, and common
 runtime functionality for all GnuPG components.  Among these are GPG,
 GPGSM, GPGME, GPG-Agent, libgcrypt, pinentry, SmartCard Daemon and
 possibly more in the future.
 .
 It will likely be renamed "gpgrt" in the future.
libhogweed6t64 3.9.1-2.2build1.1 low level cryptographic library (public-key cryptos)
 Nettle is a cryptographic library that is designed to fit easily in more or
 less any context: In crypto toolkits for object-oriented languages (C++,
 Python, Pike, ...), in applications like LSH or GNUPG, or even in kernel
 space.
 .
 It tries to solve a problem of providing a common set of cryptographic
 algorithms for higher-level applications by implementing a
 context-independent set of cryptographic algorithms. In that light, Nettle
 doesn't do any memory allocation or I/O, it simply provides the
 cryptographic algorithms for the application to use in any environment and
 in any way it needs.
 .
 This package contains the asymmetric cryptographic algorithms, which,
 require the GNU multiple precision arithmetic library (libgmp) for
 their large integer computations.
libidn2-0 2.3.7-2build1.1 Internationalized domain names (IDNA2008/TR46) library
 Libidn2 implements the revised algorithm for internationalized domain
 names called IDNA2008/TR46.
 .
 This package contains runtime libraries.
liblz4-1 1.9.4-1build1.1 Fast LZ compression algorithm library - runtime
 LZ4 is a very fast lossless compression algorithm, providing compression speed
 at 400 MB/s per core, scalable with multi-cores CPU. It also features an
 extremely fast decoder, with speed in multiple GB/s per core, typically
 reaching RAM speed limits on multi-core systems.
 .
 This package includes the shared library.
liblzma5 5.6.1+really5.4.5-1ubuntu0.2 XZ-format compression library
 XZ is the successor to the Lempel-Ziv/Markov-chain Algorithm
 compression format, which provides memory-hungry but powerful
 compression (often better than bzip2) and fast, easy decompression.
 .
 The native format of liblzma is XZ; it also supports raw (headerless)
 streams and the older LZMA format used by lzma. (For 7-Zip's related
 format, use the p7zip package instead.)
libmd0 1.1.0-2build1.1 message digest functions from BSD systems - shared library
 The libmd library provides various message digest ("hash") functions,
 as found on various BSDs on a library with the same name and with a
 compatible API.
libmount1 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 device mounting library
 This device mounting library is used by mount and umount helpers.
libncursesw6 6.4+20240113-1ubuntu2 shared libraries for terminal handling (wide character support)
 The ncurses library routines are a terminal-independent method of
 updating character screens with reasonable optimization.
 .
 This package contains the shared libraries necessary to run programs
 compiled with ncursesw, which includes support for wide characters.
libnettle8t64 3.9.1-2.2build1.1 low level cryptographic library (symmetric and one-way cryptos)
 Nettle is a cryptographic library that is designed to fit easily in more or
 less any context: In crypto toolkits for object-oriented languages (C++,
 Python, Pike, ...), in applications like LSH or GNUPG, or even in kernel
 space.
 .
 It tries to solve a problem of providing a common set of cryptographic
 algorithms for higher-level applications by implementing a
 context-independent set of cryptographic algorithms. In that light, Nettle
 doesn't do any memory allocation or I/O, it simply provides the
 cryptographic algorithms for the application to use in any environment and
 in any way it needs.
 .
 This package contains the symmetric and one-way cryptographic
 algorithms. To avoid having this package depend on libgmp, the
 asymmetric cryptos reside in a separate library, libhogweed.
libnl-3-200 3.7.0-0.3build1.1 library for dealing with netlink sockets
 This is a library for applications dealing with netlink sockets.
 The library provides an interface for raw netlink messaging and various
 netlink family specific interfaces.
libnl-genl-3-200 3.7.0-0.3build1.1 library for dealing with netlink sockets - generic netlink
 This is a library for applications dealing with netlink sockets.
 The library provides an interface for raw netlink messaging and various
 netlink family specific interfaces.
 .
 API to the generic netlink protocol, an extended version of the netlink
 protocol.
libnpth0t64 1.6-3.1build1 replacement for GNU Pth using system threads
 nPth is a non-preemptive threads implementation using an API very
 similar to the one known from GNU Pth. It has been designed as a
 replacement of GNU Pth for non-ancient operating systems. In
 contrast to GNU Pth it is based on the system's standard threads
 implementation. Thus nPth allows the use of libraries which are not
 compatible to GNU Pth.
libp11-kit0 0.25.3-4ubuntu2.1 library for loading and coordinating access to PKCS#11 modules - runtime
 The p11-kit library provides a way to load and enumerate Public-Key
 Cryptography Standard #11 modules, along with a standard configuration
 setup for installing PKCS#11 modules so that they're discoverable. It
 also solves problems with coordinating the use of PKCS#11 by different
 components or libraries living in the same process.
 .
 This package contains the shared library required for applications loading
 and accessing PKCS#11 modules.
libpam-modules 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5 Pluggable Authentication Modules for PAM
 This package completes the set of modules for PAM. It includes the
  pam_unix.so module as well as some specialty modules.
libpam-modules-bin 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5 Pluggable Authentication Modules for PAM - helper binaries
 This package contains helper binaries used by the standard set of PAM
 modules in the libpam-modules package.
libpam-runtime 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5 Runtime support for the PAM library
 Contains configuration files and  directories required for
 authentication  to work on Debian systems.  This package is required
 on almost all installations.
libpam0g 1.5.3-5ubuntu5.5 Pluggable Authentication Modules library
 Contains the shared library for Linux-PAM, a library that enables the
 local system administrator to choose how applications authenticate users.
 In other words, without rewriting or recompiling a PAM-aware application,
 it is possible to switch between the authentication mechanism(s) it uses.
 One may entirely upgrade the local authentication system without touching
 the applications themselves.
libpcre2-8-0 10.42-4ubuntu2.1 New Perl Compatible Regular Expression Library- 8 bit runtime files
 This is PCRE2, the new implementation of PCRE, a library of functions
 to support regular expressions whose syntax and semantics are as
 close as possible to those of the Perl 5 language. New projects
 should use this library in preference to the older library,
 confusingly called pcre3 in Debian.
 .
 This package contains the 8 bit runtime library, which operates on
 ASCII and UTF-8 input.
libproc2-0 2:4.0.4-4ubuntu3.2 library for accessing process information from /proc
 The libproc2 library is a way of accessing information out of the /proc
 filesystem.
 .
 This package contains the shared libraries necessary to run programs
 compiled with libproc2.
libseccomp2 2.5.5-1ubuntu3.1 high level interface to Linux seccomp filter
 This library provides a high level interface to constructing, analyzing
 and installing seccomp filters via a BPF passed to the Linux Kernel's
 prctl() syscall.
libselinux1 3.5-2ubuntu2.1 SELinux runtime shared libraries
 This package provides the shared libraries for Security-enhanced
 Linux that provides interfaces (e.g. library functions for the
 SELinux kernel APIs like getcon(), other support functions like
 getseuserbyname()) to SELinux-aware applications. Security-enhanced
 Linux is a patch of the Linux kernel and a number of utilities with
 enhanced security functionality designed to add mandatory access
 controls to Linux.  The Security-enhanced Linux kernel contains new
 architectural components originally developed to improve the security
 of the Flask operating system. These architectural components provide
 general support for the enforcement of many kinds of mandatory access
 control policies, including those based on the concepts of Type
 Enforcement, Role-based Access Control, and Multi-level Security.
 .
 libselinux1 provides an API for SELinux applications to get and set
 process and file security contexts and to obtain security policy
 decisions.  Required for any applications that use the SELinux
 API. libselinux may use the shared libsepol to manipulate the binary
 policy if necessary (e.g. to downgrade the policy format to an older
 version supported by the kernel) when loading policy.
libsemanage-common 3.5-1build5 Common files for SELinux policy management libraries
 This package provides the common files used by the shared libraries
 for SELinux policy management.
 .
 Security-enhanced Linux is a patch of the Linux kernel and a
 number of utilities with enhanced security functionality designed to
 add mandatory access controls to Linux.  The Security-enhanced Linux
 kernel contains new architectural components originally developed to
 improve the security of the Flask operating system. These
 architectural components provide general support for the enforcement
 of many kinds of mandatory access control policies, including those
 based on the concepts of Type Enforcement, Role-based Access
 Control, and Multi-level Security.
libsemanage2 3.5-1build5 SELinux policy management library
 This package provides the shared libraries for SELinux policy management.
 It uses libsepol for binary policy manipulation and libselinux for
 interacting with the SELinux system.  It also exec's helper programs
 for loading policy and for checking whether the file_contexts
 configuration is valid (load_policy and setfiles from
 policycoreutils) presently, although this may change at least for the
 bootstrapping case
 .
 Security-enhanced Linux is a patch of the Linux kernel and a
 number of utilities with enhanced security functionality designed to
 add mandatory access controls to Linux.  The Security-enhanced Linux
 kernel contains new architectural components originally developed to
 improve the security of the Flask operating system. These
 architectural components provide general support for the enforcement
 of many kinds of mandatory access control policies, including those
 based on the concepts of Type Enforcement, Role-based Access
 Control, and Multi-level Security.
libsepol2 3.5-2build1 SELinux library for manipulating binary security policies
 Security-enhanced Linux is a patch of the Linux kernel and a number
 of utilities with enhanced security functionality designed to add
 mandatory access controls to Linux.  The Security-enhanced Linux
 kernel contains new architectural components originally developed to
 improve the security of the Flask operating system. These
 architectural components provide general support for the enforcement
 of many kinds of mandatory access control policies, including those
 based on the concepts of Type Enforcement®, Role-based Access
 Control, and Multi-level Security.
 .
 libsepol provides an API for the manipulation of SELinux binary policies.
 It is used by checkpolicy (the policy compiler) and similar tools, as well
 as by programs like load_policy that need to perform specific transformations
 on binary policies such as customizing policy boolean settings.
libsmartcols1 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 smart column output alignment library
 This smart column output alignment library is used by fdisk utilities.
libss2 1.47.0-2.4~exp1ubuntu4.1 command-line interface parsing library
 libss provides a simple command-line interface parser which will
 accept input from the user, parse the command into an argv argument
 vector, and then dispatch it to a handler function.
 .
 It was originally inspired by the Multics SubSystem library.
libssl3t64 3.0.13-0ubuntu3.6 Secure Sockets Layer toolkit - shared libraries
 This package is part of the OpenSSL project's implementation of the SSL
 and TLS cryptographic protocols for secure communication over the
 Internet.
 .
 It provides the libssl and libcrypto shared libraries.
libstdc++6 14.2.0-4ubuntu2~24.04 GNU Standard C++ Library v3
 This package contains an additional runtime library for C++ programs
 built with the GNU compiler.
 .
 libstdc++-v3 is a complete rewrite from the previous libstdc++-v2, which
 was included up to g++-2.95. The first version of libstdc++-v3 appeared
 in g++-3.0.
libsystemd0 255.4-1ubuntu8.11 systemd utility library
 This library provides APIs to interface with various system components such as
 the system journal, the system service manager, D-Bus and more.
libtasn1-6 4.19.0-3ubuntu0.24.04.1 Manage ASN.1 structures (runtime)
 Manage ASN1 (Abstract Syntax Notation One) structures.
 The main features of this library are:
   * on-line ASN1 structure management that doesn't require any C code
     file generation.
   * off-line ASN1 structure management with C code file generation
     containing an array.
   * DER (Distinguish Encoding Rules) encoding
   * no limits for INTEGER and ENUMERATED values
 .
 This package contains runtime libraries.
libtinfo6 6.4+20240113-1ubuntu2 shared low-level terminfo library for terminal handling
 The ncurses library routines are a terminal-independent method of
 updating character screens with reasonable optimization.
 .
 This package contains the shared low-level terminfo library.
libudev1 255.4-1ubuntu8.11 libudev shared library
 This library provides APIs to introspect and enumerate devices on the local
 system.
libunistring5 1.1-2build1.1 Unicode string library for C
 The 'libunistring' library implements Unicode strings (in the UTF-8,
 UTF-16, and UTF-32 encodings), together with functions for Unicode
 characters (character names, classifications, properties) and
 functions for string processing (formatted output, width, word
 breaks, line breaks, normalization, case folding, regular
 expressions).
 .
 This package contains the shared library.
libuuid1 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 Universally Unique ID library
 The libuuid library generates and parses 128-bit Universally Unique
 IDs (UUIDs). A UUID is an identifier that is unique within the space
 of all such identifiers across both space and time. It can be used for
 multiple purposes, from tagging objects with an extremely short lifetime
 to reliably identifying very persistent objects across a network.
 .
 See RFC 4122 for more information.
libxxhash0 0.8.2-2build1 shared library for xxhash
 xxHash is an Extremely fast Hash algorithm, running at RAM speed limits.
 It successfully completes the SMHasher test suite which evaluates collision,
 dispersion and randomness qualities of hash functions. Code is highly portable,
 and hashes are identical on all platforms (little / big endian).
 .
 This package contains the shared library.
libzstd1 1.5.5+dfsg2-2build1.1 fast lossless compression algorithm
 Zstd, short for Zstandard, is a fast lossless compression algorithm, targeting
 real-time compression scenarios at zlib-level compression ratio.
 .
 This package contains the shared library.
login 1:4.13+dfsg1-4ubuntu3.2 system login tools
 This package provides some required infrastructure for logins and for
 changing effective user or group IDs, including:
  * login, the program that invokes a user shell on a virtual terminal;
  * nologin, a dummy shell for disabled user accounts;
logsave 1.47.0-2.4~exp1ubuntu4.1 save the output of a command in a log file
 The logsave program will execute cmd_prog with the specified
 argument(s), and save a copy of its output to logfile.  If the
 containing directory for logfile does not exist, logsave will
 accumulate the output in memory until it can be written out.  A copy
 of the output will also be written to standard output.
mawk 1.3.4.20240123-1build1 Pattern scanning and text processing language
 Mawk is an interpreter for the AWK Programming Language. The AWK
 language is useful for manipulation of data files, text retrieval and
 processing, and for prototyping and experimenting with algorithms. Mawk
 is a new awk meaning it implements the AWK language as defined in Aho,
 Kernighan and Weinberger, The AWK Programming Language, Addison-Wesley
 Publishing, 1988. (Hereafter referred to as the AWK book.) Mawk conforms
 to the POSIX 1003.2 (draft 11.3) definition of the AWK language
 which contains a few features not described in the AWK book, and mawk
 provides a small number of extensions.
 .
 Mawk is smaller and much faster than gawk. It has some compile-time
 limits such as NF = 32767 and sprintf buffer = 1020.
mount 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 tools for mounting and manipulating filesystems
 This package provides the mount(8), umount(8), swapon(8),
 swapoff(8), and losetup(8) commands.
ncurses-base 6.4+20240113-1ubuntu2 basic terminal type definitions
 The ncurses library routines are a terminal-independent method of
 updating character screens with reasonable optimization.
 .
 This package contains terminfo data files to support the most common types of
 terminal, including ansi, dumb, linux, rxvt, screen, sun, vt100, vt102, vt220,
 vt52, and xterm.
ncurses-bin 6.4+20240113-1ubuntu2 terminal-related programs and man pages
 The ncurses library routines are a terminal-independent method of
 updating character screens with reasonable optimization.
 .
 This package contains the programs used for manipulating the terminfo
 database and individual terminfo entries, as well as some programs for
 resetting terminals and such.
passwd 1:4.13+dfsg1-4ubuntu3.2 change and administer password and group data
 This package includes passwd, chsh, chfn, and many other programs to
 maintain password and group data.
 .
 Shadow passwords are supported.  See /usr/share/doc/passwd/README.Debian
perl-base 5.38.2-3.2ubuntu0.2 minimal Perl system
 Perl is a scripting language used in many system scripts and utilities.
 .
 This package provides a Perl interpreter and the small subset of the
 standard run-time library required to perform basic tasks. For a full
 Perl installation, install "perl" (and its dependencies, "perl-modules-5.38"
 and "perl-doc").
procps 2:4.0.4-4ubuntu3.2 /proc file system utilities
 This package provides command line and full screen utilities for browsing
 procfs, a "pseudo" file system dynamically generated by the kernel to
 provide information about the status of entries in its process table
 (such as whether the process is running, stopped, or a "zombie").
 .
 It contains free, kill, pkill, pgrep, pmap, ps, pwdx, skill, slabtop,
 snice, sysctl, tload, top, uptime, vmstat, w, and watch.
sed 4.9-2build1 GNU stream editor for filtering/transforming text
 sed reads the specified files or the standard input if no
 files are specified, makes editing changes according to a
 list of commands, and writes the results to the standard
 output.
sensible-utils 0.0.22 Utilities for sensible alternative selection
 This package provides a number of small utilities which are used
 by programs to sensibly select and spawn an appropriate browser,
 editor, pager, or terminal emulator.
 .
 The specific utilities included are: sensible-browser sensible-editor
 sensible-pager sensible-terminal
sysvinit-utils 3.08-6ubuntu3 System-V-like utilities
 This package contains the important System-V-like utilities.
 .
 Specifically, this package includes:
 init-d-script, fstab-decode, killall5, pidof
 .
 It also contains the library scripts sourced by init-d-script and other
 initscripts that were formally in lsb-base.
tar 1.35+dfsg-3build1 GNU version of the tar archiving utility
 Tar is a program for packaging a set of files as a single archive in tar
 format.  The function it performs is conceptually similar to cpio, and to
 things like PKZIP in the DOS world.  It is heavily used by the Debian package
 management system, and is useful for performing system backups and exchanging
 sets of files with others.
ubuntu-keyring 2023.11.28.1 GnuPG keys of the Ubuntu archive
 The Ubuntu project digitally signs its Release files. This package
 contains the archive keys used for that.
unminimize 0.2.1 Un-minimize your minimial images or setup
 This package contains the unminimize script that helps the user in
 unminimizing their minimized images or cloud setup.
util-linux 2.39.3-9ubuntu6.3 miscellaneous system utilities
 This package contains a number of important utilities, most of which
 are oriented towards maintenance of your system. Some of the more
 important utilities included in this package allow you to view kernel
 messages, create new filesystems, view block device information,
 interface with real time clock, etc.
zlib1g 1:1.3.dfsg-3.1ubuntu2.1 compression library - runtime
 zlib is a library implementing the deflate compression method found
 in gzip and PKZIP.  This package includes the shared library.